README.md, before:

# pytomlpp

[![Build Status](https://github.com/bobfang1992/pytomlpp/workflows/Wheels/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bobfang1992/pytomlpp/actions)
[![Conda Status](https://anaconda.org/dorafmon/pytomlpp/badges/version.svg)](https://anaconda.org/dorafmon/pytomlpp)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/pytomlpp.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/pytomlpp)

This is an unofficial python wrapper for `toml++` (https://marzer.github.io/tomlplusplus/).

Some points you may want to know before use:
* Using `toml++` means that this module is fully compatible with TOML [v1.0.0-rc.3](https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0-rc.3). 
* We convert toml structure to native python data structures (dict/list etc.) when parsing, this is more inline with what `json` module does.
* The binding is using [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11).
* The project is tested using [toml-test](https://github.com/BurntSushi/toml-test) and [pytest](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest).

# Example
```
In [1]: import pytomlpp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

In [2]: toml_string = 'hello = "世界"'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

In [3]: pytomlpp.loads(toml_string)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Out[3]: {'hello': '世界'}

In [4]: type(_)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Out[4]: dict

In [6]: pytomlpp.dumps({"你好": "world"})                                                                                                                 
Out[6]: '"你好" = "world"'
```

# Why bother?
There are some exisitng python TOML parser on the market but from my experience they are all purely implemented in python which is a bit slow. 

```
In [1]: import pytomlpp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

In [2]: import toml                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      

In [3]: def run_parser(parser_func, toml_string): 
   ...:     for i in range(1000): 
   ...:         parser_func(toml_string) 
   ...:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  

In [4]: %timeit run_parser(pytomlpp.loads, toml_string)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
310 ms ± 56.7 ms per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1 loop each)

In [5]: %timeit run_parser(toml.loads, toml_string)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
3.5 s ± 162 ms per loop (mean ± std. dev. of 7 runs, 1 loop each)

In [6]: pytomlpp.lib_version                                                                                                                              
Out[6]: '1.3.2'
```

# Installing

We recommand you to use `pip` to install this package:
```sh
pip install pytomlpp
```

You can also use `conda` to install this package, Note we only support linux 64 python 3.8 for now, I would love to provide this package on more python versions and platforms via conda but I have not found a way yet to automate this in the CI, if you know how to do this please contribute!

```sh
conda install -c dorafmon pytomlpp
```

You can also install from source:

```
git clone git@github.com:bobfang1992/pytomlpp.git --recurse-submodules=third_party/tomlplusplus --shallow-submodules
cd pytomlpp
pip install .
```

Commit message:

update toml++ to v2.4.0 (#55)
other small changes:
- removed dependency on some of toml++'s internal macros
- updated benchmark script to show relative speedup/slowdown factor
- updated README with new benchmark data
- updated `tloptional`
- made use of `tloptional` over `std::optional` switched based on a configurable `#define`
- added an explicit .clang-format config

README.md, after:

# pytomlpp

[![Build Status](https://github.com/bobfang1992/pytomlpp/workflows/Wheels/badge.svg)](https://github.com/bobfang1992/pytomlpp/actions)
[![Conda Status](https://anaconda.org/dorafmon/pytomlpp/badges/version.svg)](https://anaconda.org/dorafmon/pytomlpp)
[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/pytomlpp.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/pytomlpp)

This is an python wrapper for `toml++` (https://marzer.github.io/tomlplusplus/).

Some points you may want to know before use:
* Using `toml++` means that this module is fully compatible with TOML [v1.0.0](https://toml.io/en/v1.0.0). 
* We convert toml structure to native python data structures (dict/list etc.) when parsing, this is more inline with what `json` module does.
* The binding is using [pybind11](https://github.com/pybind/pybind11).
* The project is tested using [toml-test](https://github.com/BurntSushi/toml-test) and [pytest](https://github.com/pytest-dev/pytest).

# Example
```
In [1]: import pytomlpp                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            

In [2]: toml_string = 'hello = "世界"'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             

In [3]: pytomlpp.loads(toml_string)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
Out[3]: {'hello': '世界'}

In [4]: type(_)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Out[4]: dict

In [6]: pytomlpp.dumps({"你好": "world"})                                                                                                                 
Out[6]: '"你好" = "world"'
```

# Why bother?
There are some existing python TOML parsers on the market but from my experience they are implemented purely in python which is a bit slow.

```
Parsing data.toml 5000 times:
  pytomlpp:    0.662 s
      toml:    5.277 s (7.9x slower)
     qtoml:    8.020 s (12.1x slower)
   tomlkit:   32.898 s (49.6x slower)
```
Test it for yourself using [the benchmark script](benchmark/run.py).

# Installing

We recommand you to use `pip` to install this package:
```sh
pip install pytomlpp
```

You can also use `conda` to install this package, Note we only support linux 64 python 3.8 for now, I would love to provide this package on more python versions and platforms via conda but I have not found a way yet to automate this in the CI, if you know how to do this please contribute!

```sh
conda install -c dorafmon pytomlpp
```

You can also install from source:

```
git clone git@github.com:bobfang1992/pytomlpp.git --recurse-submodules=third_party/tomlplusplus --shallow-submodules
cd pytomlpp
pip install .
```
